NIP101 censorship resistant marketplace (#13)
nostr-protocol/nostr: nips/101.md

NIP-101
======

Censorship Resistant Marketplace Suite
--------------------------------------

`draft` `optional`

A suite of 6 `kinds` to build a censorship resistant marketplace on Nostr network

* `kind` `101` `product`
* `kind` `102` `encrypted_order`
* `kind` `103` `encrypted_payment`
* `kind` `104` `encrypted_receipt`
* `kind` `105` `encrypted_shipping`
* `kind` `106` `feedback`

> End-to-end encryption between buyer and merchant is achieved using NIP04 encryption scheme https://github.com/fiatjaf/nostr/pull/10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
End-to-end encryption between buyer and merchant is achieved using NIP04 encryption scheme https://github.com/fiatjaf/nostr/blob/master/nips/04.md
```

The initial `product` event `id` is the product ID for the lifetime of the product. 

If `e` `tag` of an initial `product` event `id` exists in an event, the relay should treat it as a product update. The relay should keep the intial product event, and the most recent update.

If an update includes `p` `tag` with `32-byte` `hex` of signers own `public-key`, the lifetime of the product is over, and listings should be removed from relay.

    {
      id: <32-bytes sha256 of the serialized event data>
      pubkey: <32-bytes hex-encoded public key of the event creator>,
      created_at: <unix timestamp>,
      kind: 101,
      tags: [
        ["e",  <32-bytes hex of the inital product id>, <recommended relay URL>],
        ... // if e tag is present event is a product update
        ["p", <32-bytes hex of the merchants public-key>, <recommended relay URL>],
        ... // if p tag of the merchants public-key is present, product should be removed
      ]
      content: <stringified JSON object>,
      sig: <64-bytes signature of the sha256 hash of the serialized event data, which is the same as the "id" field>,
    }

## `kind` `102` `encrypted_order` (buyer -> relay -> merchant)

> `102`: `encrypted_order`: the `content` is set to a base-64 encoded, aes-256-cbc encrypted, stringified JSON object `{quantity: <integer>, name: <string>, address: <string>, phone: <string>, email: <string>}` passing order details to merchant.

Reviewer: Should this include `nostr pubkey`?

`e` `tag` should be set to the related `kind` `101` `product` `id`

`s` `tag` is a 32-byte sha256 hash of the shared cipher, so the merchant can validate the cipher they generate.

    {
      id: <32-bytes sha256 of the serialized event data>
      pubkey: <32-bytes hex-encoded public key of the event creator>,
      created_at: <unix timestamp>,
      kind: 102,
      tags: [
        ["e",  <32-bytes hex of the product id>, <recommended relay URL>],
        ["s", <32-byte sha256 hash of the shared cipher>],
      ]
      content: <base-64 encoded, aes-256-cbc encrypted, stringified JSON object>,
      sig: <64-bytes signature of the sha256 hash of the serialized event data, which is the same as the "id" field>,
    }

## `kind` `103` `encrypted_payment` (merchant -> relay -> buyer)

> `103`: `encrypted_payment`: the `content` is set to a base-64 encoded, aes-256-cbc encrypted, stringified JSON object `{data: <string>, url: <string>}` passing payment details to the buyer.

Reviewer: what does `url` do?
